The problem of course is that for logging in,
we don't use the error handling logic we use for signing up and therefore, we get the full error response
which we tried to output as a message,
hence we see object object here.
Now actually it would be nice to share that error handling logic between both observables, so between
the sign up and the login observable and that of course is possible. We can create a new private method
here in the auth service, private because we'll only use it in that service, which we could name handle
error and where we get an error response which is of type error response, HTTP error response to be precise
and that is imported from @angular/common/http. So I get that response here and in there,
I want to have that code,
so I want to basically dive into the response, check it and then throw a new error observable.
So I copy that entire code into the handle error method, where I set up let error message, then check
the error response for the error field and then for the nested error field, then we have that switch
statement and we in the end return a new thrown error in an observable, either here or here. Now instead
of setting up this anonymous method up there, we can pass this handle error into catch error and this
handle error refers to this private method here.
So now we have this central place for handling errors or this central function and we use that here,
we can now use that same pipe with catch error on our login observable here,
so there I add that exact same pipe.
This means that this handle error function now runs for both of observables that are related to signing
up, as well as for observables that are related to logging in and therefore now if we save this, we should
see a different error message
if we try to login with a user that doesn't exist. Now we see an unknown error occurred and it makes
sense that we see this message because in our handle error function, we only handle the e-mail exists
error here in this switch case statement.
Now we can simply add more cases because for logging in, you see common error codes are e-mail not found
or invalid password
and I guess it would make sense to handle these two cases since they look relatively common.
Important of course, if you don't want to give any hints away whether the e-mail or the password was the
wrong thing, you can of course also handle both with the same error message that doesn't give any hints.
Here,
I will be more specific to practice this a bit better,
so let's break here
after this case and then handle the e-mail not found case where I will set my error message to this
e-mail was or does not exist, then break and then add another case for invalid password, like this where
we can set the error message equal
this password is not correct.
Again, you could use the same error message for wrong password and wrong e-mail to give no hint away
for what
of the two things was wrong to enhance security but here, I want to be specific because this allows us
to better practice this all, I guess.
Now with this tiny change in place, which I guess already shows the magic of using that central error
handling logic, we don't need to change anything anywhere else,
we only added two new cases to this handle error function and we're done.
So with this simple change, if I now try to login for a user where the e-mail address doesn't exist, we
get the e-mail does not exist and now if I take the existing e-mail address but a wrong password,
I get the password is not correct.
So our error handling is working and
we get the sign up and the login route in place.
The next step of course is to finally start using that login data, start storing that token and adjust
our user interface to the current authentication status of the user.